# Milestone-3-The-Minimum-Viable-Product-MVP
When I did the dataset descriptor assignment, I had no idea what I was going to do with the dataset containing DC’s buildings and their histories. All I knew was that it would be cool to learn more about the immediate area I live in through a digital study. When I dug back into the data recently, I noticed that the “architect” for many houses in NW DC is listed as Sears. In my mind, Sears is a bankrupted department store that my parents shopped at when they were kids. I had no idea they were in the housing business and had such an impact on the neighborhood I grew up in.
I decided to find out when, where, and why these houses were assembled, which could perhaps challenge the perception of northwest DC’s architectural history as being entirely made up of Tudor/Georgian Revival, Colonial-style, and mid-century modern multi-million-dollar homes for the ultra-wealthy. Perhaps lost in that story are more modest narratives that could provide additional dimension to the neighborhood’s history.
Within my window of the Palisades neighborhood, I anticipated the pre-fab homes would be located south of MacArthur Boulevard, since those areas had smaller lot sizes, were noisier, and were downhill and close to the river, leading to lower costs of living and a higher likelihood of residents who were more cautious about spending big on a house. Additionally, I expected a big boom in the 1910s and 1920s, tapering off afterward due to the Great Depression and WWII. I ended up being mostly correct: there were virtually no houses in the North Palisades, aside from a few potential outliers. However, building occurred almost entirely in the 1920s, with a couple in the 1930s. Pre-built homes are an older phenomenon than that, which makes me wonder what caused this pause before building exploded. I will have to determine whether this is a dataset issue or a historical mystery to investigate.
As described in my comments, the GIS system requires coordinates and has no way of locating addresses without third-party sources. This forced me to improvise with an Excel sheet I produced containing the coordinates of each street and the jitter function to create an informative graphic. I am still trying to find a reliable source of coordinates and have read that open sources exist for DC, though I haven’t located them precisely yet. Overall, I hope this is somewhat interesting and provides a rough draft of what the project could ultimately become.

